so hey everyone and welcome to another
instance of hello interviews very clever
name where we're interviewing about
interviews I I kind of love the idea
here uh today I'm I'm really excited to
introduce you guys to Austin McDonald uh
Austin is a friend of mine he's also a
former senior engineering manager at
meta Facebook where he was actually
working as the hiring committee chair
for IOS and Android pipeline so very
familiar I think you were working in
recruiting tools is that right yeah
that's right my my last four years that
was building the tools that the
recruiters and the sorcerers and even
the candidates would use every day for
their interviews so I can't think of
anyone more qualified to tell us about
the interviewing process uh than you
Austin also has a a passion for
Behavioral interviews and I know on this
channel we really haven't gone into that
enough we really focused a lot of our
content on system design uh so I'm
really excited to kind of talk with him
uh about behavioral interviewing and
then also if you guys are interested in
learning more I'll leave it in the
description but Austin has a great
substack where he shares tips and advice
on you know how you can actually think
about behavioral interviews and some
preparation steps and things definitely
worth a a subscribe and a and a check
out if you haven't looked at it already
I sometimes hear from candidates and
they say oh you know I'm good uh I can
talk about my experience or you know I
don't think that's as important as my
technical interviews why should
candidates care about behavioral
interviews if they've got a lot of good
experience isn't that good enough yeah
great great question question and
classic response and I hear this a lot
so to me behavioral interviews is the
number one interview type that is
underprepared for and I think if you've
you know just gone online and read some
article about the star method or
whatever that is not going to be enough
I think for you to really shine and so I
have a couple of things that a couple
things I tell candidates so number one
thing is if you get good at behavioral
interviewing if you really understand
what it means to communicate your
experience and what you've done in a
successful way you will actually become
a better engineer so uh you know with
limitations I I would say that uh
practicing coding interviews is not
going to necessarily make you a better
engineer on a day-to-day basis I think
that maybe practicing system design
might make you better but really if you
understand what's successful about your
career and what's made all those
projects that you've done successful you
will be able to repeat those things and
be a much better engineer so one this
kind of like the reflections on your own
career and kind of that framing is
actually helpful in a more General sense
than just the interview is that what
you're saying yeah totally exactly so I
think just as when you're going to write
your performance review and you're
thinking about what's what made your
project successful for That season I
think that's going to enable you to to
apply that going forward in the same way
when you're preparing for a behavioral
interview a lot of it is thinking about
your past experience and thinking about
what you've done and what you've
accomplished and how you went about
accomplishing that and I think when you
go and you do that reflection it really
helps you understand oh like this is was
this was the key this was the turning
point this is where I really added value
and then you can take that forward and
apply that to the Future project so I
think that's number one in terms of why
you should invest I think number two is
that it really is an important part of
the hiring process it's like important
for the companies as they are evaluating
you especially for senior Engineers
where every senior engineer starts to
look and smell a little bit different
than previous senior engineers and so
they give us opportunity to really
showcase what your specific skills and
what you you've brought to the table and
so when you're a hiring manager and
you're sitting down thinking about why
am I giving this behavioral interview
you're really assessing whether or not
this candidate has in the past
demonstrated behaviors or actions where
they uh have been successful at building
the kinds of projects that you as a
hiring manager are hiring someone to do
and because past performance is a
predictor of future results with people
like not necessarily with your stock
portfolio but with people then when you
assess the past performance of a person
you're really understanding whether or
not they will employ those kinds of
repeatable actions repeatable behaviors
in whatever new environment you put them
in I see tons of candidates who are
getting down leveled from like uh staff
to senior senior to midlevel a lot of
times actually behavioral ends up
showing up here is this something that
you're seeing as well oh huge well as a
hiring committee chair what we would do
is we would sit down with the packets
the entire interview packet from their
you know phone screen all the way
through the onsides any kind of
follow-ups whatever and then we would
make a higher decision but we would also
make a level decision and certainly for
level five level six so senior engineer
staff engineer or above the behavioral
interviews become start to become really
really important when you're a staff
level engineer enger you're somebody who
is uh working on projects that last a
year or six months that last a very long
time that involve a lot of different
people the actions that that that staff
person takes outside of their kind of
own code and their own you know
technical contribution is really what
makes or breaks the success of that
person so I would say that we would
often see situations where the system
design interview for a level five and
the system design interview for a level
six would kind of look the same like hey
we design a news feed you know okay it
sort of looks the smells the same maybe
it's a little bit more complete for the
six or maybe maybe the six has some some
some depth that they display in the
system design but then the behavior will
be totally different because the level
five person would be working on a
project with one or two other people of
a couple of months and they would be
generally getting this direction from
someone else whereas the level six is
working across the company or across
many different teams they're the person
who is setting Direction picking the
metrics partnering with the engineering
manager so that kind of big difference
is really seen in the behavioral
interview and not the other ones awesome
well I think you've sold me behavioral
interview is very important tell me a
little bit more about this evaluation
process like as a hiring committee as a
an interviewer what are people looking
for in these behavioral interviews
because if I can try to reflect a
position that I feel like many of our
audience has it's that well I've got you
know experience I have some things I'm
not sure actually how to present what I
have that lines up with what the
interviewer is looking for can you
explain a little bit more about how
interviewers are evaluating behavioral
interviews sure yeah I have so much to
say about this I think one thing I would
lead with is your stories are probably
better than you think they are almost
every person I've done over 200 in the
last year I think uh coaching sessions
with other with with candidates who are
practicing their behavioral and I can
say that it is almost always a case that
your stories are more interesting than
you think they are so like please don't
undersell your own experience or think
that you're not ready for that next
level job or that next level uh company
because of what you've done in the past
there's probably really great nuggets
that you need to talk about so let's
talk about how a behavioral inter
interviewer someone on the hiring
manager site would extract that signal
you got to think about what what is
their mindset their mindset is look I
have a team I have a company I have a
position that I'm hiring for that person
once they get into that position are
going to be doing some projects they're
going to be taking some action working
with the team they doing whatever
they're doing as a software engineer
what does that person need to have what
are the actions they need to take what
are those qualities that that person
needs to have in order to be successful
sometimes in my specific team or if
they're at a bigger company and across
the entire company and so um a lot of
companies take a structured approach to
this in general the idea is that this
hiring manager or this interviewer has
an idea of what's most important things
about a candidate these are things like
initiative perseverance conflict
resolution leadership communication
skills those those kinds of things big
bucket and often sof those categories
that those are at least for me when I
was first getting started interviewing
felt to me like a an unlaw that in
general interviewers are trying to
assess the signals and they're using
those signals to make a hiring
determination can you talk us through
like what that Dynamic looks like what
are those signals and why do they use
them yeah and actually there's even in a
whole like uh field of industrial
psychology called selection science
where people get phds and assessing
employees and understanding like what
are the key elements of success for this
company or this team or this this role
um but let's talk through you know a few
of them ones that are really common
across lots of different companies so
one of them is initiative so are you
able to are you able to see a problem
and then you go after solving that
problem another one might be handling
ambiguity so if you are going to be able
to uh you know look at a problem that is
you don't know what the the the next
step is and you go and you figure out
what to do in that situation
perseverance you know pushing through
challenges and difficulties conflict
resolution right so oftentimes working
with other people and especially at
higher levels we may be required to make
trade-offs or resolve conflicts that
come along the way I think that uh a lot
of companies are really interested in
people having a growth mindset so are
you able to take feedback well provide
feedback to others and then respond
actively to to the feedback that you
received um communication skills so are
you able to uh communicate in a written
way are you able to communicate in a
verbal way are you able to know when to
send a message or when to write a
document when to call a meeting like
those are all skills that a hiring
manager is is is looking for in general
is a hiring manager going yes or no on
initiative or is there like a scale that
they're thinking through if they've
thought about it instruction away
they're certainly thinking about it as a
scale because the initiative that say uh
a new engineer might take and the
initiative that a staff engineer might
take very different so uh new engineer
the initiative is like I've run out of
work I need to go find work let me go
talk to the senior engineer or the you
know the uh uh uh the hiring manager or
the and figure out what I'm supposed to
do next but for a staff engineer this
might be I see this problem in the
company that that has been persistent
for many years I'm going to figure out a
way to solve that problem so like the
initiative is the same action but it's
very different it looks very different
and this is part of how the hiring
manager is deciding what level they want
to hire this candidate at it's based on
at which scope actions are you taking
okay so it's it's kind of like uh
they're looking at each of these signals
according to the various levels of
response which is kind of a mid-level
response might look different than a
staff level response totally totally
when hiring managers are looking at this
how much of this is a sniff test how
much of this is they they like me and
and you know they're generally looking
out to see someone who's like them
versus they're this objective spock-like
approach to try to figure out initiative
levels and and so on and so forth yes
right so I think this is a really good
point and I do think unfortunately that
likeability does play a big role I think
we're as humans we're naturally oriented
to talk to someone and see do we trust
this person you know do we like them do
they feel like us and I think that these
this approach where you structure or
companies would structure what they're
looking for is actually an an attempt to
get away from simple like do I want to
get a beer with this candidate right
which is a very bad way to hire people
and I think that uh but I at the same
time as a candidate I think you
especially in the beginning part of the
interview where you're establishing
Rapport and you're telling talking about
yourself and you're talking about the
maybe a favorite project so being
impactful that you've done I think how
you engage with the interviewer and
whether or not you come across as
confident whether or not you come across
as relaxed I do think those things make
a difference and probably more of a
difference than most hiring managers
would would it interesting yeah it does
feel like there is maybe a a bit of a a
standard that we'd all like to aspire to
which is this unbiased objective process
where we find the best talent and then
the reality on the ground which is
interviewers are humans they kind of see
themselves and other people and that
impacts their subjective assessments of
their their capabilities yeah for sure I
mean these structured interviewing
approaches where you identify what's
important in candidates and then you
assess them based on those signal areas
that we were talking about have been
proven Su scientifically via psychology
studies to reduce bias and so this is
why you see the the best run companies a
large companies employing this kind of
structured approach you can often times
see this when you're a candidate when
you're listening to people's questions
you can see them move from sort of one
signal area to another or the question
that they ask fits in with a totally
different of part aspect of of of
working and honestly I think that those
systems are really good I think they do
at times uh cause interviewers to jump
around instead of having a conversation
and keeping the candidate at ease they
can be like okay we're done with
conflict resolution now on to growth you
know I think that that kind of uh
structured approach with an interviewer
who's not skilled and who's not good at
helping the candidate uh you know feel
at ease can can feel a little bit you
know block you know jerky to the to the
candidate yeah well so this is a a
helpful foundation so we've got these
signals that these interviewers are
looking for both to make a leveling
determination and to decide whether
you're going to be hired now candidates
come in obviously with their own
experience the real question I think for
most people is all right how do I
present my experience the projects that
I've worked on the things that I care
about in the way that best gives the
interviewer what they need in order to
make a good decision do you have some
suggestions on how candidates can
support this I would say first really
understanding you and understanding what
you've accomplished in your career and I
think that this is aware something like
a brag document or a y document that you
may may or not be keeping along the way
during your career can be really
valuable so spending time as a
behavioral interview candidates thinking
through what are the projects that I've
accomplished what am I really proud of
you know what do I feel like I would I
would love to tell a hiring manager and
then being able to use some list of
signal areas or maybe even company
values every company has some sense of
what's important to them and then
aligning those kinds of projects to to
those company values becomes I think the
First Step Beyond trying to jump into
specifically you how do you respond to
questions or what do you say I think
that's actually a pretty interesting
place to start because this brag
document comes unnaturally for a number
of candidates like I certainly talk with
a bunch of Engineers who say I haven't
done anything technically interesting
I've never built something at scale I've
never led a team before how can I
possibly uh you know present myself in
these settings what should people like
that do how should they reframe or or
think about how they set up that brag
document or how they can start to think
about how they form these stories that
they're going to present yeah great
question I mean I think that if you are
an engineer in a work setting right now
I think you can start by journaling once
a week or once a month and thinking
about what have I accomplished what are
the tasks that I've done what are the
projects that I've done I think this
gives you this record which will not
only help you in behavioral interviews
but also help you writing your resume
Etc if you do if you are working in a
place that has any kind of formal uh
performance reviews most big companies
have formal performance reviews those
are great resources to see you know what
you have done in the past and I would
really encourage folks who are still in
those jobs to get that information out
of the HR System and put it someplace
where you can keep it uh in case you're
no longer working in that place but if
you're if you're not in the situation
and you need to come up with these ideas
I think asking yourself some questions
right so things that that uh where did
you make the biggest user impact right
what did you build what have you built
what you worked on what where's a place
where you've really moved some
measurable metric whether that's
engagement time or revenue or costs
performance like these places where
there's some uh measurable impact tend
to be the places where uh that turn into
really good stories I think that uh you
can look at projects that took a long
time so like what what did you work on
for a really long time and now sometimes
there's a bad reason why you worked on
it for a long time but most of the time
it's because it's complicated and
difficult and there was a lot of
interesting twists and turns along the
way and those become really interesting
projects to talk about that's a good
point points yeah I think at least from
my side there is this benefit to
separating out the objective what
happened from the do I think that this
is impressive or not a lot of candidates
try to merge those two and as a result
they stumble over themselves trying to
come up with stories but they find it
actually pretty easy to list all those
things that they actually did and we can
go and rank those and we can decide
what's going to be most important so I
love the idea of actually just asking
yourself questions about what happened
before you go and kind of try to judge
what uh is most appropriate to bring up
in an area yeah and you talk about
picking projects to talk about and so
one of the worksheets that I provide on
the uh on the uh substack uh be able to
rate your projects by personal in
interaction like personal involvement
sometimes you're sort of casually
involved in a really interesting project
maybe that's not the best project to
talk about and then there's one uh AIS
of business impact so like how much of a
difference did this project make and
then um you know the other AIS is uh in
terms of scope so like how large of a
project this was sometimes you know one
line can make you are in heavily
invested in in making a on line change
which made a really big business impact
but wouldn't necessarily be the best
project to talk about because it doesn't
display a lot of uh great behaviors or
repeatable actions that a hiring manager
might be interested in so if you can uh
categorize the projects that you worked
on along those three axes you can figure
out which ones are the most interesting
ones to talk about and specifically you
can get to this like favorite project or
oftentimes the second question in the
interview is talk about something you
did or impactful project or whatever and
picking that one can be difficult for
people and I think using those three
axes can help them choose the right one
perfect yes so I think after you've laid
this groundwork you know in terms of uh
understanding what you have done I do
think it's helpful for you to start
journaling about and sort of preparing a
small response like a a draft response
of what you might say and this is where
these structures that you may or may not
heard about in the past come in really
helpful so there's one that's very very
popular it's called star situation task
action result and so the idea is that if
you respond to someone tell them about
the situation then you tell the tasks
that you had then you tell them about
the actions that you took then you told
them about what happened in the end this
becomes a natural sort of story flow and
and one that gives people upfront some
context to understand what uh what what
you did and what you produced where you
are demonstrating these repeatable
actions that could be replicated on the
hiring manager team and then sort of
ending it with some business what's the
business impact or what's the the bang
that we got out of this project and
that's a really natural approach to to
telling a story I think that this leaves
out a couple of um really important
parts I think that especially for senior
Engineers the idea that that the
candidate can reflect back on their
project and give me some kind of insight
into what they learned what they would
take away to the next project or even
just even just talking to me about how
they thought the project went is can be
really valuable and a way to establish
themselves a person who has acquired
this knowledge over time I prefer this
format called Carl which is context
action result learnings and this this
also solves another common problem where
people spend too much time on the setup
they I'm talk about the situation and
that takes a while and I'm going to talk
about the task that I did and really
that's just context kind of all wrapped
up in one thing and so I think it's more
helpful for people who are just getting
started to think about context action
result learnings and then that's the way
that you frame the the response for for
most stories that you're that you're
being asked and to be clear these are
the ones where someone asks you a
question like tell me about a time when
you did blah right I think it fits
really well into that framework got it
so Carl it sounds like the the main
thing is grouping together some of the
situation task and then this addition of
the L what kind of learnings would you
expect from a candidate what kind of
Reflections are you looking for here as
a Hing manager yeah really good question
so and this is another way where hiring
managers are looking to understand your
level and your scope is by how deep of
insights that you can provide so a
junior engineer might provide insights
like well you know maybe I should have
talked to the designer before I built
this feature and then that would have
helped me avoid building this thing
which didn't you know building the thing
which the the the designer didn't like
right sometimes that can be something
that a junior engineer might like hey I
I think whenever you have a mistake
inside of a project it's okay to to
share a mistake especially when you
share that you learn from it and then
you share that oh on the next time I
made sure that I talked to the the
designer in advance so I think that kind
of learning where you're reflecting on
mistakes that you made is a really
really common one I think another one
might be uh reflecting for more senior
Engineers might be reflecting more on um
how they got in that situation in the
first place right sometimes the the
story is about like oh we have
performance problem or reliability
problem inside of the codebase and then
we did XYZ to fix it and sometimes I
think it's helpful for me to know you
know okay well we wouldn't have been in
this situation if we had had changed
this culture or adjusted this metric or
if we had done something differently and
I think that um the sometimes the
learning can even be a forward-looking
learning so something like well uh we
did that we shipped this feature but
then the next step we noticed XYZ and
then we needed to go and and make this
changes to the Future in the future
right so that kind of forward-looking
reflection can also be something that
fits in the learning category that's
super helpful I I love the emphasis on
kind of insight and wisdom because those
are theoretically harder earned and as a
result can correlate more strongly with
experience I think for some candidates
this learning gets a bit uncomfortable
because it kind of implies in some ways
a mistake or weakness it's like I didn't
get this to the first time how do you
feel about how candidates can kind of
reveal mistakes or things that they
would do differently what the right way
to approach this in an interview setting
yeah it's really interesting and I think
this is where having a interview coach
is really helpful because sometimes when
you reveal certain weaknesses an
experienced interview might think well
you should have known that and then
there's certain weaknesses like for
example like um well you know what I
just shipped this feature to 100%
without running any kind of you know a
graduated experiment or 1% roll out or
Canary anything like that and then we
end up with this bug and then you tell
me the story about how you solve the bug
I think that you have established
yourself as someone who is not super
senior because you didn't know this
right I think as a junior candidate
maybe this is okay especially if you
follow this up with hey like I learned
this thing and then the future projects
I didn't do that so I think that some of
this depends on the on the the kind of
weakness or this the the depth of the
weakness that you're that you're you're
revealing however I will say that
revealing a weakness and then revealing
that you learn from it is is a really
great signal I love to see this in fact
if someone does not admit to me any
weakness or does not tell me about any
times when they made mistakes or they
can't think of any way that this project
could have been better this is like the
the you know fairy tale ending right to
the project now I don't believe you
right now I have like some trust
concerns right where I'm not sure that
you're being totally honest with me so I
think that sharing weaknesses sharing
places where the project didn't go as
expected that is signal of your ability
to reflect and your ability to grow I
think it just depends a little bit on
which weakness you're sharing and I
think this is where having a more
experienced friend or mock interview can
really be helpful yeah love it yeah
vulnerability and authenticity I think
are actually really important techniques
to employ you know as a an interviewer
when K it sounds like a sales pitch or
some sort of manufactured story I've got
two options either a I go and I
disbelieve it you know I don't this
isn't a story that I'm going to take it
face value or B I'm GNA dig in really
deep I'm going to be very critical to
make sure I'm actually getting the truth
and in both cases the candidate probably
doesn't want that response bonds and so
in a lot of cases actually being
truthful and honest and coming across as
authentic can really help to avoid kind
of these pathological behaviors from
interviewers or worst case the
interviewer are just nixing you because
they don't believe you so I I love the
the learning aspect that you've
introduced here I think this is actually
probably a good segue like I want to
make this as practical as possible for
our audience and I'd love to talk about
some of the things that you see in
practice from candidates that might be
red flags or potholes like where would
you say are the common categories of
candidates screwing up and maybe we can
go into a little bit of what that
category is and then like what people
should be doing instead yeah sure so I
think there're really clear ones and um
the number one one I would say is is not
providing enough clear repeatable
actions that you did so this comes up a
lot with Junior Engineers so they tell
me like oh we have this feature they
spend a lot of time setting it up then
they tell me we built it and we shipped
it right and it's like all the
interesting parts are in the part that
you kind of yada yada y over which is
this like what are the repeatable
actions like what are the things that
you did that's the biggest one I think
um the number two one would probably be
not providing the right level of detail
so either most of the time it's
providing too much context so spending
too much time before you get to the
actions that you took uh a lot of people
think that the hiring manager needs a
lot of context in order to understand a
project however most projects fit within
some kind of archetype um like oh hey
you know business feature is needed by
customer we're going to to build it or
like performance or reliability
challenge or whatever it is or even even
conflicts oftentimes fit into these kind
of Architects like conflict archetypes
conflict with an architect conflict with
a manager conflict with uh you know a
co-worker over some technical choice and
the the manager has a a general
understanding of how that system works
how that that problem or how that
project might go down and so providing a
ton of context isn't really valuable for
the for the hiring manager so I think
any context that you're adding is just
delaying the signal that I'm acquiring
which is what did you do in the
situation and so it is a fine art to
figure out okay how much context is
required for the h manager to believe
that this is an important thing to do or
that I'm making the right choices as I'm
making these actions um but I think that
this is where also writing things down
in advance and thinking about them
getting some help from AI getting some
help from a mock interviewer can be
really helpful in you honing honing how
much context to apply yeah this is a
really interesting one because I think
it's hard to evaluate uh independently
unless you have some experience but in
general I think people underestimate how
much pattern matching happens in a
behavioral interview like you said
there's this Association to archetypes
and now that I've established that this
is a story about this archetype I kind
of know what are the interesting parts
that I want you to go into those whereas
if you're spending a lot of time giving
me technical jargon about you know some
specific things a I probably don't
understand it and B I'm not sure it's
very important but I think for many
candidates they interpret this feedback
as saying I need to explain all of the
context of my project like I'm like the
interviewer five I need to simplify
things so dramatically that I'm spoon
feeding them U I don't think this is the
right approach but I'd love to get your
take on this there's kind of two
directions to like sufficient context
and one of them seems to assume kind of
negatively on the interviewer yeah yeah
I mean I would definitely not try to
explain it to like if this person that
you're talking to especially at a large
company is going to be probably two or
three levels above the level that you
are being hired for and so they have
probably seen you know potentially twice
as much or three times as much uh many
little versions of the software
development life cycle than possibly you
have and so I think that this idea that
you have to explain to them like like
they're five is is not helpful I think
that also the hiring manager or the
person the interviewer is very likely to
just stop you and ask for more contexts
if they need it I think that is
something that you can rely on um and I
wouldn't I wouldn't try to provide too
much and give them too much of a crutch
I would try to get as fast as you can to
the actions that you're taking in fact
some people would recommend that you
that you frontload it depending on the
question and say something like well you
know in this project I did these three
things let me tell you a little bit
about the like context and setup for for
that project I think that that's sort of
frontloading what you want the person to
take away from uh from the response love
it and I I love being able to rely on
your interviewer to ask additional
questions you as a candidate don't
necessarily need to tell them absolutely
everything you can leave some ear marks
and then let them dig in where where
they see uh necessary I stopped you
short you were going through some really
good red flags and potholes there are
there other ones that come to top of
mind we were talking earlier about
making a good first impression and I
think that there are two questions that
are really really common uh and maybe
three questions will really common two
which happen typically the very first
part of the interview and that's tell me
about yourself and tell me about your
favorite project or most impactful
project or whatever however it's phrased
and I think with these two questions you
really have the opportunity to set the
stage for the interview you are this is
the first thing you're saying so the
interviewer is likely uh the most
attentive that they're going to be this
is when they establishing your your uh
first impression they will probably
remember what you say in the very
beginning minute 34 like I don't know
maybe maybe they remember it maybe they
don't but that first five 10 minutes is
is something that they will really latch
on to and so for you to be able to set
the stage of who you are describing who
you are and then talking about a project
which is really matches the level that
you're you're applying for and and
demonstrates a lot of strong behaviors
that you had in that project that to me
is uh you know is is critical and then
after that it's sort of like you're
downhill like the interviewer might be
assessing your other axes and of
figuring out if you're right for the
role um but they probably have made
their decision in that first five 10
minutes based on what you're saying so
that one is a huge one that's a good
point I I think especially for staff
level Engineers managers that tell me
about yourself project or uh question
will will give you a pretty good
indication as to whether this person has
a handle on where their career is going
you know you talk with candidates who
are really strong they know exact what
they do best and they know exactly how
it adds value to the business and
they're able to tie those two together
for candidates who come in and it's not
really clear where they're going and
they haven't figured it out yet it's
harder to see them being effective and
kind of employing that and so especially
at those more senior levels I I think
you're you're totally on to something
with you know how you can set that up
what are other things that people should
keep in mind for making that first
impression there's a lot of ways I can
go and tell me about myself like what's
a framework for me thinking about the
respon here so I like a three-part
framework and the first one is just a
brief description of yourself kind of
like put yourself into some bucket
inside the person's mind with a personal
Twist on the end so this is like hi my
name is Austin I'm a senior engineer
with five years experience I spend most
time on the back end and I'm really
passionate about performance right so I
think that this gives me some kind of
General sense of you know who this
person is right as a as an interviewer
and it also gives me something personal
about them that maybe I want to look for
or ask about later so that's the first
part the second part is a list of
accomplishments so this is where you
talk about does does the candidate
really understand what has been what
they've accomplished and and how how
they've gone about adding value so
really I want to see a list of things
that you've done that has brought about
business value so me as a hiring manager
I'm solving you I'm hiring you to solve
some business problem in my organization
I want to get real world impact from the
code that you're producing and so I want
to see that you have accomplished real
world impact in past rool this could be
something like you know my previous role
took on this you know uh like endtoend
loading problem where we reduced uh you
know reduced loading Time by 50% right
would this really help the users um
experience a better product right so
you're giving me this list of things
which is kind of like a bullets off your
resume in a sense right I definitely do
not want a history lesson so sometimes
people will give me this thing where
they're like I first started as an
intern and then you know then I went to
this company then I went to this company
and I think that that gets old really
really fast and adds no value about you
like I'm not understand I'm not taking
away anything as a as an interviewer and
you can imagine how like crazes might be
from a 20 or 30 year career right uh
that gets pretty intense so that's the
middle part and then this third part is
U it's oftentimes people just kind of
Peter out after this so sometimes people
get those two things and then they kind
of like um uh you know and they sort of
stop and I think this is where if you
end really strongly by passing the the
ball back to the interviewer and you you
say some forward-looking statement about
how you what you want to get out of your
next role you might say something like
I'm going looking for an opportunity to
lead people in my next role because I
think that's where I want to take my
career in the future something like that
ideally this is about the role itself
ideally this something about the company
or about the role that that uh the
hiring manager is hiring for something
about I like this team I like this
product like this company because of
some reason um to me that's a really
easy way to pass the ball back to the to
the interviewer and end your tell me
about yourself and this whole thing
should be like two two minutes it should
be pretty quick right um this is
something that's certainly worth
practicing uh if you read it that's
probably not going to have a great
impression on the person and and they
can tell that you're reading it um but
writing it down and practicing it you're
going to give it a lot you're going to
give it to the paper interview you're
going to give it to a hiring manager
during the team selection you're can you
could give it to a a recruiter there's a
lot of places where you could give this
uh this kind of pitch could be worth
your time that's great yeah I think as a
hiring manager I'm like licking my chops
if somebody tells me about experience
that they've done that's relevant to my
team and they tell me that the
challenges that they want to solve are
actually the challenges that my team
solves and I'm going I can already see
you on my team you know let me let me
figure out what evidence I need to get
in order to make happen I think that's
the best impression you can leave uh in
these yeah great way to frame it let's
um let's talk a little bit about that
preparation and and kind of you you
mentioned obviously you don't want to
just be reading off a script it doesn't
sound very contemporaneous but I think
there's a lot of our audience who
naturally are more introverted they're
not public speakers they actually you
know they're going to be super nervous
like anyone would in an interview
setting what kind of things should they
do in order to make sure that day they
can kind of present the the best version
of their experience
yeah a lot of aspects there I think a
lot of people are going to go after
preparing for Behavioral interviews in a
similar way than they might prepare for
a coding interview so I'm going to go
find a list of problems on the internet
and then you know questions on the
internet and I'm going to like practice
those responses and I think that that
has limited value to be to be honest so
I think it's much more important like we
talked about to understand what value
you have added to organizations in the
past so spend your time at first
understanding what projects you've
accomplished aligning those projects to
Common signal areas especially if the
company that you're applying for has any
kind of published values so Amazon has
their whatever like 16 leadership
principles and you know matter has their
values and a lot of companies have
published values even smaller ones so
making sure that you've aligned those uh
in advance and you have some sort of
collection of stories that you have
spent a little bit of time preparing
this Carl format or Star Format or
whatever you choose so that you have
some idea of how to present these things
I think that's the first step then um
then I I know I said earlier that uh you
shouldn't prepare for specific questions
but I think that it is worth preparing
for for three specific questions so one
of them is tell me about yourself like
we talked about earlier the next one is
to make sure that you have a really
solid story about your favorite project
and uh this can be expanding on that
Carl format so that you you can spend
you can spend five even seven minutes if
you're a good speaker and if you're
organized in what you're communicating
and the final uh the final question is a
conflict Story I mean I can say you know
four NES what five NES maybe you're
likely to get some question about a time
when you resolve a conflict in a
behavioral interview and having some
well prepared and well thought out
response to that really makes sense I
would say that You' talked about how
maybe this maybe the candidate is not a
a trained speaker and how do you prepare
for them practice for that right so I do
think this is something that comes with
time and something that comes with
practice and I think the best way to do
this is actually to go back and do what
I said don't do at the beginning get a
list of of stories and then see if you
can respond to them on a video so give
yourself a little time pressure right
where you're recording yourself and
practice answering the question using
that that Carl form format that uh that
we talked about earlier and it probably
won't be that great in the beginning and
that's okay right I think that's okay I
think the idea here is that as you
practice this kind of extemporaneous
speaking you'll get you'll get better
and better at it I would say after that
getting a friend right getting either
getting a mock interview from an
experienced hiring manager that's
probably the best way but then also even
a friend could be somebody who give you
feedback on how you're communicating
whether you're clear and can ask you
some some simple follow-up questions
that can be really valuable too aome it
seems like you a lot there it it sounds
like for the kind of early stage Al
about the first stage it seems like you
basically just need to assemble some
stories kind of rank them flesh them out
so that way you know what you're going
to be talking about but your
recommendation here is don't prepare for
specific questions prepare for
categories that are going to be useful
in a broad variety of questions it
sounds like you've got some worksheets
on your substack that might be useful
for this but generally speaking I think
that that level of detail a lot of
candidates aren't doing and it would
definitely improve it sounds like you
would also recommend preparing you know
some responses for a couple common
questions or three common questions and
then this final uh idea of trying to
answer some simulated questions in front
of a a camera or ideally in a mock
interview setting plug for hello
interview if you guys would like to
check it out is a really great way to
either self-critique or get your own
feedback I do find also that sometimes
candidates are are helped by creating a
few flash cards with those questions not
as a means of preparing but as a way of
kind of random in and seeing whether
they can think on their feet and apply
the stories that they've already created
many candidates will be a little bit
startled by the fact that they've got a
question that they weren't anticipating
which they should very much expect but
if they can practice that it reduces the
level of anxiety that comes into that
interview setting if you know that
you're going to be getting things of the
form that you've seen before uh then
you're much more likely to succeed yeah
I mean and I would just add to that
briefly I think if you since so many
interviews nowadays are remote then if
you did make this list of projects and
you did create these axes like we talked
about signal areas like the worksheet
that I talked about then you can s of
quickly consume the question that the
interview is asking you and say oh it's
a question about feed you know growth
right let me look down and see oh that's
the story that I want to choose because
sometimes like you said there is a sense
of of being nervous and how do I
remember all the things right so if you
have it in front of you categorized it's
going to be really uh you know really
valuable I think that um one one part of
the interview process that people
frequently under prepare for is um the
kind of end of the interview where the
the interviewer asks you what questions
do you have and I would I would um I
would assess candidates based on what
they ask me so if they ask me tell about
a day in the life of an engineer or
something like that I think this is just
not super valuable right every most
companies the day of life with kind of
looks the same right get up you know
work on stuff you know go to a meeting
go home right so it's not it's not like
that's a super insightful question I
appreciated times when candidates ask me
something about the the product
direction that my team is taking or
about the technology choices my team's
having or uh if you are interviewing
with a hiring manager somebody that you
know you're going to directly report to
then uh I really appreciate candidates
who asked me questions about my own
management style how have I helped
people grow you know how what have been
the the most important parts of of
making Engineers successful and how have
I how have I uh like mentored Engineers
along the way so those kinds of
questions can reflect back to me how
much thinking you've done on uh about
the company and about the role that's a
great Point especially I think a lot of
people are thinking also about team
match which is kind of a recent
invention Google's been doing this for a
while meta started doing this it used to
be part of the boot camp process but
functionally these are meetings that you
have with a hiring manager they're
technically not an interview but the
reality for most people is they are an
interview and in those cases the
questions that you ask are really
indicative and and very much color the
conversation with the hiring manager and
so questions about leadership style and
Team Dynamics are fantastic but also if
you can do even a shallow of research
about the team or the space that they're
operating in and ask them questions
about directions or strategy or where
things are going there's a good chance
that you're going to be completely off
base just because nobody without
extensive experience is going to ask a
really good question but the signal
there that you put in the effort and
then you actually considered it for a
bit is actually very powerful for a
hiring manager and immediately they see
you as someone who's kind of on their
tee which is an impression that I think
is very valuable and cultivating I would
say this team match thing you it is
probably 5050 whether or not the hiring
manager expects you to drive the
interview so I think you could sit be in
the situation where you're expected to
have question after after question and
so preparing more than just one or two
for the last five minutes of the
interview is really important for that
team match phase very very useful Austin
this has been tremendously valuable I
I've certainly learned a lot and I hope
everyone um has in the chat if you all
want to leave any comments or questions
um I will definitely be there to answer
I hope Austin will be able to give us a
little bit of time as well I would
encourage you guys to check out his
substack he's got plenty of interesting
resources there if you're interested in
working with a coach who's actually done
behavioral interviews and can give you
some of the feedback that we've talked
about on hello interview uh we've got
resources there and we also have a an AI
tool we call storybuilder which asks you
Socratic questions about your experience
to try to build some of those base
anecdotes that Austin's been talking
about that'll be useful for some of
those subsequent stages of preparation
so behavioral interview not something to
be taken lightly very important
especially for those more senior roles
and interns for what it's worth it seems
to be a a thread that we didn't get a
chance to get into um but Austin really
appreciate your time yeah thanks Evan
appreciate it thanks for having me